So let's now use these queries or these fetched project items from the DOM to get some information
from them.
We can use a for loop for that and go through all the project items of project items
like this and these are my DOM nodes here, right?
That's what I'm going through.
Now I'm not interested in the full node, I'm interested in the ID because we could say a project list
also has a projects field
and initially, this is an empty array let's say,
now keep in mind fields are translated to properties and actually they are translated to properties
just as if you would specify them in your constructor and conveniently actually, the fields are converted
to properties before your other constructor logic runs after any super constructor was called if you
had any. And therefore here, we can conveniently reach out to projects and push items into projects
and what I want to push here are my project items,
so not the IDs but actually instances of the project item class which currently of course doesn't
do too much. Well even though the project item class is empty, we can still instantiate it by calling new
project item
and even though right now we have no constructor in there,
I want to pass on my ID which I can get from projectItem.id, with .id here, we access the
ID property of the DOM node which holds the same value as I set on the ID attribute here,
so with that we're getting access to this ID string which is part of the DOM and I forward that
to the project item. So in project item, even though we're not doing much else, we can at least add the
constructor now, expect an ID here and set this ID equal to ID maybe so that we store that ID
we're getting as a parameter in an instance property. Back to the project list
now, we went through all the project items and we created project item objects based on them so that
we have a Javascript representation of the DOM nodes
so to say without all the other HTML content, without the title and so on, just focusing on the ID at
the moment and therefore here, we now should have a project list which at least manages some data about
the DOM nodes it's connected to, at least we manage the IDs now.
So if we save that and after this for loop, we console log
these projects to have a look at this array and we save that and then reload, we see we got an array with objects
now, not DOM node objects but simpler objects which in the end just have an ID property right,
that's what we have in there and that's a good start,
this is something we can build up on.
So what could we do as a next step now,
now that we have these simple project items created?
Well it would make sense to add an event listener to the finish or to the activate button so that we
can get started adding some logic to that.
Now where is the place where the event listener should be added?
Well I would say in the project item because in the end we have that project item to manage a single
item,
so we want this project item to manage its connected DOM node. So here in project item, I'll add a new
function
and I'm only adding a new function so that the constructors can stay lean and is easier to read and
I'll name this function
connect switch button because in the end, the button is there to switch from active to finished or finished
to active and I'm creating a new method here which I call from inside of the constructor simply to
keep the constructor cleaner.
I'll also add another method which I'll name connect more info button,
same logic, I will call it from inside of the constructor here, connect more info button simply to
keep that leaner.
Now let's start with the switch button though.
So in the switch button here, in the connect switch button method, I want to get access to that switch
button and add an event listener. So to get access,
we of course need to get access to the DOM node, so to the project item element if you want to call it
like this,
of course the constant name is up to you and we can get this with document get element by ID because
the ID is something we're storing here,
right?
So we can say get by ID,
this ID is the value you want to use, therefore you have to make sure you're storing the ID in
this property before you call this method
because in this method, we rely on this property.
So with that, we get access to the underlying DOM node object,
now we just need to get access to the button in there,
so to the switch button if you want to call it like that. For that we can reach out to the project item
element which we just selected here in line number 13
and in there with query selector, I want to find the last button and we can do this for example with
button last of type because I have two buttons in there, in every list item, these two buttons and the
last button is this button which switches the project from box A to box B or the other way around.
So now it's this switch button where we can add an event listener and of course that should be a click
event listener because we want to react to button clicks and then here, what should be executed?
That's a tricky question. Well in the end here, I want to trigger a method which should actually be part
of the project list
I would say, to be precise I want to trigger multiple methods
you could say. We need to remove this project item from the project list it's currently in and then add
it to the other project list
and now there are various ways of achieving this,
we could work with a static class again which in the end then can be called from inside the item or
from inside of any list instance to kind of let that static class manage this for us
but here I'll show you an approach which we haven't used like this before but we learned about all the
core components of that,
we can use a callback function so to say. In the project list, let's start with that. In the project list,
we need two methods
as I said in the end, one is to switch the element away, so to switch the project, we could name it switch
project.
The idea is that here, we remove the project from the projects array we have in that list because it will
be switched to the other list and then we also call a method in the other list instance to add it there.
So since the project list class is used to instantiate these list instances, we have to add the method
here and we could name this add project. So keep in mind this is a blueprint for our project list instances
and we create two instances and when we move a project in instance to instance B, so from active
to finished, then we have to trigger a method in instance A,
so in active where we remove the item and a method in instance B,
so in the finished project list where we add this project and because we're moving it to that list.
So here in switch project, removing the item, that's not too hard,
we can reach out to this project and we can remove an item with splice for example, for that we need
to find the index of the project in that array,
we can't use index of because a project is an object and for that, index of doesn't really work but we can
find it for example project index
with this projects find index, you learned about this method earlier and there, you can find the index by passing
in that anonymous function where you receive every element that is part of the array which you can give
any name you want here,
p for example and then here in this anonymous function, I am using an arrow function, you want to return
true if it's the item you are looking for, in my condition for that is that the ID of the item I'm looking
at
and again this will basically be every item in the array because the function is executed for every
item in the array.,
if that is equal to and now we need to expect that here in switch project, we get the ID of the item
that should be switched,
so if that's equal. If that is equal, we know OK
now this function executed on the element in this project which is the element we want to move
and then this projects find index will return the index of that project in the projects array,
so the project index can then be used here in splice like this for example.
This is an option, a shorter
alternative is to set this project equal to this projects filter, so to a filtered list where we then
use almost the same logic,
just the opposite.
So where we filter for the ID not being equal because what does this do?
It executes this function here on every element in this projects and it keeps all items where this returns
true,
so we want to return true for everything but when the ID of the item we're currently looking at in
the projects array is equal to the ID of the project we want to remove because if they're equal, this is
the item we want to remove,
so then in filter we want to return false so that this item is dropped from this newly created array
and this newly created array is then stored back in this project.
So that's us removing a project, that's the easier part,
now the trickier part is to make sure that we can now call add project in the other instance of this
list.
So doing this add project will not work because this would call it in the same instance,
right,
so that's something we'll have to fix.